# Optimization with PyPortfolioOpt


## Overview

This Python script introduces the PyPortfolioOpt library for efficient portfolio optimization and is 
based on Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT) principles.

## Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Key Features](#key-features)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Performance Metrics](#performance-metrics)
- [Dependencies](#dependencies)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)
- [Author](#author)
- [Acknowledgments](#acknowledgments)
- [References](#references)

## Introduction

1) **Diversification:**
   - A strategic risk management approach that involves spreading investments across various assets
   - Effective in minimizing unsystematic or specific risks of individual assets, industries, or regions.
   - Moderates the impact of fluctuations in individual assets, providing stable and smooth returns over time.
   - Provides a predictable investment experience for temperamental investors.
   - Valuable for investors with higher liquidity needs.

2) **Efficient Frontier:**
   - Represents a set of optimal portfolios that offer the highest expected return for a defined level of risk.
   - Portfolios below the Efficient Frontier are considered suboptimal.
   - Investors aim to maximize expected return for a given level of risk.
   - The Capital Market Line showcases the optimal risk-return tradeoff.

3) **Mean-Variance Optimization:**
   - Finds optimal portfolio weights maximizing the Sharpe ratio, a measure of risk-adjusted return.


### Key Features

- **Portfolio Optimization:** Utilize mean-variance optimization techniques to find the optimal allocation of assets within a portfolio.
  
- **Risk Analysis:** Assess and quantify the risk associated with the portfolio through historical simulation, parametric methods, Monte Carlo simulations, and lower partial standard deviation.

- **Asset Returns Prediction:** Employ the Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) to predict expected returns for each asset.

- **Sharpe Ratio Analysis:** Evaluate the performance of the portfolio using the Sharpe ratio, comparing it against a benchmark, such as the S&P 500.

 
 ## Getting Started

 1. **Clone the repository:**
      ```bash
      git clone https://github.com/your-username/Optimization-with-PyPortfolioOpt.git
      cd Optimization-with-PyPortfolioOpt

 ## Usage

- **Portfolio Optimization:**
To perform portfolio optimization, use the provided script along with the PyPortfolioOpt library. Modify the script to customize the list of assets, risk parameters, and optimization constraints based on your investment preferences.

- **Risk Analysis:**
Explore the risk analysis features by running the script with historical data and adjusting the parameters as needed. This will provide insights into the historical portfolio returns, volatility, and VaR measures.

## Performance Metrics

Evaluate the performance of your portfolio using key metrics:

- **Time-Weighted Return:**
  - Measures the compound rate of growth in a portfolio by accounting for the impact of cash flows over time.

- **Annualized Return:**
  - Represents the geometric mean of the annual returns, providing a standardized measure for comparing performance.

- **Cumulative Return:**
  - Calculates the total return on the initial portfolio balance over the specified time period.

- **Cumulative Benchmark Return:**
  - Measures the total return of a benchmark index (e.g., S&P 500) over the same time period for comparison.

- **Sharpe Ratio:**
  - Assesses the risk-adjusted performance by comparing the portfolio's excess return to its volatility, relative to a risk-free rate.

- **Total Profit:**
  - Quantifies the overall profit generated by the trading strategy.

Consider these metrics to gain insights into the effectiveness and risk-adjusted returns of your portfolio optimization strategy.

## Dependencies

Python 3
Required Python packages (listed in requirements.txt)

## Contributing

Feel free to contribute by opening issues, suggesting enhancements, or submitting pull requests. Your feedback and contributions are highly appreciated.

### Acknowledgments

[PyPortfolioOpt: GitHub Repository](https://github.com/robertmartin8/PyPortfolioOpt)

Martin, R. A., (2021). PyPortfolioOpt: portfolio optimization in Python. Journal of Open Source Software, 6(61), 3066, https://doi.org/10.21105/joss.03066

### License
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE.md file for details.

### Author
[Nicky Taylor](https://github.com/CoderNicky)

### References
[PyPortfolioOpt Documentation](https://pyportfolioopt.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
